# HiChIP Overdispersion and Bias Jointly Emulating Tool (OBJECT)

## HiChIP Bias

HiChIP was known to have bias from Hi-C (distance scaling, $L$) and ChIP (varing coverage at anchors, $D$). Existing interaction calling tools, e.g. MANGO model based hichipper, FitHiChIP, MAPS, had been focused on correcting the HiChIP bias to generate a background model describing the expected count/probability of the anchor pairs. Parameterizing on the expected, the distribution of the observed count is calculating from binomial distribution by MANGO/hichipper, poisson distribution by FitHiChIP, or zero truncated poisson from MAPS.

## Overdispersion

To choose an underlying statistical model for observed count distribution, we plots the mean vs. variance relationship, conditioning on the HiChIP bias, L and D. We found that the data has substantial overdispersion which is violating the poisson distribution. Negative binomial (NB) or zero-inflated poisson distribution (ZIP) is usually used to model overdispersed data. We fit the data using GLM framework discuss below to find the parameters for NB and ZIP. Then the mean-var relationship of the distribution were calculated. We found that ZIP model-driven fitting approximates well to the "smooth.spline" data-driven fitting for the mean-var relationship of the HiChIP data. We reason that the power of ZIP distribution to fit the HiChIP data is likely due to the sparsity inherited from conformation capture experiments.

## General Linear Model (GLM)

To integrate the HiChIP bias and overdispersion features, we use the GLM model where poisson mean background signal $\lambda_i$ is determined by independent variables, $L_i$ and $D_i$, and the observed count $y_i$ is generated by ZIP, the combinated distribution of poisson distribution and the probability of being structual zeros corresponding to parameters $\lambda_i$ and $\pi$ respectively.
$$ln(\lambda_i) = \beta_0 + \beta_1*ln(L_i) + \beta_2*ln(D_i)$$
$$y_i \sim ZeroInflatedPoisson(\lambda_i, \pi)$$
